mind your decisions i'm presh tal walker
in square ABCD construct a quarter
circle centered at a whose radius is
equal to the side length of the square
construct a circle P inside the quarter
circle that is tangent to both the
quarter circle and the square finally
construct seee such that c e is tangent
to the inscribed circle the question is
what is the measure of angle ECD pause
the video if you'd like to give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
recall that if two circles are tangent
their centers and the tangent point are
collinear this is because AC is
perpendicular to the tangent line and BC
is also perpendicular to the tangent
line
therefore ACB forms a straight line
segment this is true for both externally
and internally tangent circles now let's
solve the problem we have a quarter
circle centered at a and we have an
inscribed circle P that's tangent to it
therefore AP and the tangent point will
be collinear since a is a corner of the
square this line segment will also go
through C the other corner of the square
suppose the inscribed circle has a
radius equal to R construct P Q such
that Q is the tangent point alongside ad
P Q will have a length equal to R now
construct the perpendicular radius which
will also have a length equal to R this
means aq has a length equal to R thus ap
is the hypotenuse of an isosceles right
triangle and its length will be equal to
R times the square root of 2 we then
have the radius of the quarter circle is
equal to R square root of 2 plus R this
means ad will have the same length and
thus QD must have a length equal to R
times the square root of 2 now let's
consider the diagonal of the square this
must be equal to the square root of 2
multiplied by the side ad we can
substitute in for the length of ad and
then simplify we know the length of AC
and we know that a portion of it is
equal to R plus R times the square root
of 2 therefore the remaining portion
must be equal to R from here let's
construct seee since E is a tangent
point we must have P EC is a right angle
then PE is equal to R because it's a
radius of the circle now consider the
right triangle pce we have
hypotenuse that's equal to 2r and a
shorter leg that's equal to R therefore
the angle opposite R must be 30 degrees
because this is a special right triangle
this means PCE is equal to 30 degrees we
can finally calculate the measure of
angle ECD it'll be equal to angle ACD
minus angle pce angle ACD is equal to 45
degrees and angle PCE is equal to 30
degrees therefore angle ECD is equal to
15 degrees and that's our answer it's a
cute little geometry problem things are
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube as always
thanks for watching and thanks for your
support
[Music]
you